spec:do-all/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: spec:do-all
description: Execute All Tasks - runs all pending tasks from the tasks document sequentially
---

# Execute All Tasks

Executes all pending tasks from a specification's tasks document. This skill reads the tasks.md file and implements each task in order, marking them as complete.

## When to use

Use this skill when the user needs to:
- Implement an entire feature based on the tasks document
- Execute all remaining tasks from a specification
- Complete the full implementation plan

## Specification Files Structure

All specification documents are located in `.specs/<spec-name>/` directory:

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `.specs/<spec-name>/requirements.md` | Requirements and acceptance criteria |
| `.specs/<spec-name>/design.md` | Technical design and architecture |
| `.specs/<spec-name>/tasks.md` | Implementation tasks with checkboxes |

**Always read all three files** to understand the full context before executing tasks.

## Instructions

### Step 1: Locate and Read Specification Documents

1. If `<args>` contains a spec name, look in `.specs/<spec-name>/`
2. If no spec name provided, list available specs in `.specs/` and ask user to choose
3. Read and parse all specification documents:
   - `requirements.md` - understand what needs to be built
   - `design.md` - understand how it should be built
   - `tasks.md` - get the list of tasks to execute

### Step 2: Parse Tasks

1. Identify all tasks and subtasks using checkbox markers:
   - `[ ]` - Pending task (to be executed)
   - `[-]` - In progress task (continue execution)
   - `[x]` - Completed task (skip)
2. Build a task list with:
   - Task number (e.g., "1.1", "2.3")
   - Task description
   - File paths mentioned
   - Requirements references
3. Determine execution order based on task numbering

### Step 3: Execute Tasks Using Subagents

**IMPORTANT:** Always use the Task tool to execute tasks in a subagent when possible. This provides better isolation and context management.

For each pending task:

1. **Mark as in-progress** - Update the checkbox to `[-]` in tasks.md
2. **Launch subagent** - Use the Task tool with `subagent_type: "general-purpose"` to execute the task:
   - Provide the full task description, file paths, and requirements
   - Include relevant context from the spec (requirements.md, design.md)
   - The subagent will implement the task autonomously
3. **Wait for completion** - Let the subagent complete its work
4. **Verify result** - Review the subagent's output for success
5. **Mark as complete** - Update the checkbox to `[x]` in tasks.md
6. **Proceed to next task**

Example Task tool call for a task:
```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: "general-purpose"
  description: "Execute task 1.2"
  prompt: |
    Execute task 1.2 from the specification.

    Task: [Task description from tasks.md]
    Files to modify: [file paths]
    Requirements: [requirement references]

    Context from design.md: [relevant design context]

    Implement this task following the project patterns.
    Mark the task as complete when done.
```

**When NOT to use subagent:**
- Simple one-line changes
- Checkpoint/verification tasks (handle these directly)
- Tasks that require user interaction

### Step 4: Handle Checkpoints

When encountering a checkpoint task:
1. Run any verification commands specified
2. Ensure tests pass if mentioned
3. Summarize progress to the user
4. Continue to next task unless there are failures

### Step 5: Final Summary

After completing all tasks:
1. Summarize what was implemented
2. List any issues encountered
3. Suggest next steps (e.g., testing, review)

## Error Handling

- If a task fails, mark it as `[-]` and report the issue
- Ask the user how to proceed (skip, retry, abort)
- Do not proceed with dependent tasks if a prerequisite fails

## Arguments

- `<args>` - The spec name (e.g., "user-auth", "payment-flow")

If not provided, list available specs and ask the user to choose.

Commit message:

feat(skills): add auto-commit after task completion with conventional commits format

spec:do-all/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: spec:do-all
description: Execute All Tasks - runs all pending tasks from the tasks document sequentially
---

# Execute All Tasks

Executes all pending tasks from a specification's tasks document. This skill reads the tasks.md file and implements each task in order, marking them as complete.

## When to use

Use this skill when the user needs to:
- Implement an entire feature based on the tasks document
- Execute all remaining tasks from a specification
- Complete the full implementation plan

## Specification Files Structure

All specification documents are located in `.specs/<spec-name>/` directory:

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `.specs/<spec-name>/requirements.md` | Requirements and acceptance criteria |
| `.specs/<spec-name>/design.md` | Technical design and architecture |
| `.specs/<spec-name>/tasks.md` | Implementation tasks with checkboxes |

**Always read all three files** to understand the full context before executing tasks.

## Instructions

### Step 1: Locate and Read Specification Documents

1. If `<args>` contains a spec name, look in `.specs/<spec-name>/`
2. If no spec name provided, list available specs in `.specs/` and ask user to choose
3. Read and parse all specification documents:
   - `requirements.md` - understand what needs to be built
   - `design.md` - understand how it should be built
   - `tasks.md` - get the list of tasks to execute

### Step 2: Parse Tasks

1. Identify all tasks and subtasks using checkbox markers:
   - `[ ]` - Pending task (to be executed)
   - `[-]` - In progress task (continue execution)
   - `[x]` - Completed task (skip)
2. Build a task list with:
   - Task number (e.g., "1.1", "2.3")
   - Task description
   - File paths mentioned
   - Requirements references
3. Determine execution order based on task numbering

### Step 3: Execute Tasks Using Subagents

**IMPORTANT:** Always use the Task tool to execute tasks in a subagent when possible. This provides better isolation and context management.

For each pending task:

1. **Mark as in-progress** - Update the checkbox to `[-]` in tasks.md
2. **Launch subagent** - Use the Task tool with `subagent_type: "general-purpose"` to execute the task:
   - Provide the full task description, file paths, and requirements
   - Include relevant context from the spec (requirements.md, design.md)
   - The subagent will implement the task autonomously
3. **Wait for completion** - Let the subagent complete its work
4. **Verify result** - Review the subagent's output for success
5. **Mark as complete** - Update the checkbox to `[x]` in tasks.md
6. **Commit the changes** - Create a git commit for the completed task (see Committing Changes section)
7. **Proceed to next task**

Example Task tool call for a task:
```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: "general-purpose"
  description: "Execute task 1.2"
  prompt: |
    Execute task 1.2 from the specification.

    Task: [Task description from tasks.md]
    Files to modify: [file paths]
    Requirements: [requirement references]

    Context from design.md: [relevant design context]

    Implement this task following the project patterns.
    Mark the task as complete when done.
```

**When NOT to use subagent:**
- Simple one-line changes
- Checkpoint/verification tasks (handle these directly)
- Tasks that require user interaction

### Step 4: Handle Checkpoints

When encountering a checkpoint task:
1. Run any verification commands specified
2. Ensure tests pass if mentioned
3. Summarize progress to the user
4. Continue to next task unless there are failures

### Step 5: Final Summary

After completing all tasks:
1. Summarize what was implemented
2. List any issues encountered
3. Suggest next steps (e.g., testing, review)

## Committing Changes

After completing each task, create a git commit unless the user has specified otherwise:

1. Stage the changed files related to the task
2. Create a commit with a descriptive message referencing the task number
3. Do NOT include Co-Authored-By in commit messages

Commit message format (Conventional Commits):
```
<type>(<spec-name>): <description>
```

Types: `feat`, `fix`, `refactor`, `test`, `docs`, `chore`, etc.

Examples:
```
feat(user-auth): add login form component
fix(payment): resolve checkout validation error
refactor(api): simplify request handling
test(user-auth): add unit tests for login service
```

Skip committing if:
- The user explicitly asked not to commit
- The task only modified the tasks.md file (checkpoint tasks)

## Error Handling

- If a task fails, mark it as `[-]` and report the issue
- Ask the user how to proceed (skip, retry, abort)
- Do not proceed with dependent tasks if a prerequisite fails

## Arguments

- `<args>` - The spec name (e.g., "user-auth", "payment-flow")

If not provided, list available specs and ask the user to choose.
